Bulbasaur is a small, quadrupedal amphibian Pokémon that has blue-green skin with darker patches. It has red eyes with white pupils, pointed, ear-like structures on top of its head, and a short, blunt snout with a wide mouth. A pair of small, pointed teeth are visible in the upper jaw when its mouth is open. Each of its thick legs ends with three sharp claws. On Bulbasaur's back is a green plant bulb that conceals two slender, tentacle-like vines, which is grown from a seed planted there at birth. The bulb also provides it with energy through photosynthesis as well as from the nutrient-rich seeds contained within.

First partner Pokémon are raised by Breeders to be distributed to new Trainers.[1] Having been raised by humans from birth, Bulbasaur is regarded as both a rare and well-behaved Pokémon. It is known to be extremely loyal, even after long-term abandonment.[2] Bulbasaur have demonstrated a nurturing instinct towards younger, weaker Pokémon, one individual even using its vines to pick up a crying Pokémon, gently rocking it back and forth through the air while singing a "Bulba-by".[3] Its vines are long and strong enough to allow Bulbasaur to grab the branches of trees and pull itself up to reach berries.[4] Bulbasaur can survive for days without even eating a single morsel.[5] As shown in Pokémon Sleep, Bulbasaur is known to sleep in sunny spots.[6]

It is found in grasslands and forests throughout the Kanto region. However, due to Bulbasaur's status as first partner Pokémon, it is hard to come by in the wild and generally found under the ownership of a Trainer. It has been recently seen living in the Terarium of Blueberry Academy. A Bulbasaur's bulb will flash blue when it is ready to evolve. If it does not want to evolve, it struggles to resist the transformation.[7] Many Bulbasaur gather every year in a hidden garden in Kanto to evolve into Ivysaur in a ceremony led by a Venusaur.

Friends
charmander
squirtle
pikachu

Abilities
Action: Growl Intimidate your opponents
Action: Tackle a low strike
Action: terminal curl www.pdx.edu
