Pikachu (Japanese: ピカチュウ, Hepburn: Pikachuu) (PEE-ka-choo[1]) is an Electric-type Pokémon introduced in Generation I. Pikachu is renowned for being the most well-known and recognizable Pokémon. Over the years, Pikachu has become so popular that it serves as the Pokémon franchise mascot. It is the Version Mascot and First partner Pokémon for the game Pokémon Yellow and its remake, Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu!. It is also well known from the anime, where Ash Ketchum, the former protagonist, owns a Pikachu.
It evolves from Pichu when leveled up with high friendship and evolves into Raichu when exposed to a Thunder Stone. When in Alola (Pokémon Sun and Pokémon Moon and Pokémon Ultra Sun and Pokémon Ultra Moon), it evolves into Alolan Raichu through exposure to a Thunder Stone. It also has a Gigantamax form, and can be found in Cramorant's Gorging Form.


Contents
1	Biology
1.1	Physiology
1.2	Behavior
1.3	Special abilities
1.3.1	Z-Moves
1.3.2	Gigantamax
2	Evolution
3	Game info
3.1	Game locations
3.2	Pokédex entries
3.2.1	Pikachu in a cap
3.3	Stats
3.4	Learnset
3.4.1	Leveling
3.4.2	TM/HM
3.4.3	Breeding
3.4.4	Tutoring
3.5	Sprites
3.6	Side Game Data
4	Appearances
4.1	Anime
4.1.1	Main
4.1.2	Recurring
4.1.3	Minor
4.2	Manga
4.3	Crossover
4.3.1	Super Smash Bros. series
4.3.2	Mario franchise
4.3.2.1	Mario Artist: Paint Studio
4.3.2.2	Super Mario Maker
5	Trivia
5.1	Origin
5.2	Etymology
6	Names in other languages
7	Gallery
8	See also
ADVERTISEMENT
Fandom Trivia
quiz imageQuiz
The Pikachu Quiz
3 questions
Check out more quizzes at Fandom Trivia
Biology
Physiology
Pikachu are small, and cute mouse-like Pokémon. They are almost completely covered by yellow fur. They have long yellow ears that are tipped with black. A Pikachu's back has two brown stripes, and its large tail is notable for being shaped like a lightning bolt, yet its brown tip is almost always forgotten. Pikachu have short arms with five tiny fingers on forehands and three sharp fingers on their hind legs. On its cheeks are two red, circle-shaped pouches used for storing its electricity. They turn yellow and spark with electricity when it's about to use an Electric attack, such as Thunderbolt. It has also been known to generate small surges of electrical energy in anger or for protection, like in the anime.

A female Pikachu looks almost exactly the same as a male, with the exception of her tail, which is rounded at the end and has an inward dent, giving it the appearance of a heart. However, in earlier anime episodes, and in the games prior to Generation IV, female and male Pikachu look identical.

As Gigantamax Pikachu, it becomes larger and chubbier (similar to its Generation 1 design). Its tail becomes longer and stores all of the electricity it generates, causing it to glow a bright yellow and enabling it to become as powerful as a lightning strike. Its power is equal to that a power plant; however, it is difficult to use it in peoples' homes since Pikachu can only remain in its Gigantamax form for a short time.

When several of these Pokémon gather, their electricity can cause lightning storms.

A Shiny Pikachu is slightly orange.

In "A Plethora of Pikachu!", according to Pikala, the fur from Pikachu in the Kanto region sparkles in sunlight, while the Pikachu from Alola fur is silky smooth and shines in sunlight.

Behavior
Pikachu are usually friendly creatures that love to be cuddled. They love having their tails rubbed, especially at the base; they also like being stroked. However, if threatened or angered, this Pokémon can be quite aggressive. If someone pulls or steps on its tail, it is most likely it will bite or shock anyone in the area, including the one who pulled its tail.

However, in the anime and in the wild of the Kanto region they live in big groups deep in forests and are wary of humans.

In Kanto according to Ash in "Gotta Catch a What?!", Pikachu also greet one another by shocking them and sometimes they'll gather up in big groups to search for Thunderstones so they can evolve.

The Pikachu that live in the Pikachu Valley in Alola in the anime, greet each other by sniffing one another and rubbing their tails together. Also, they can start duels with one another by sending electrical signals and the winner is decided when the opponent's tail is bitten.

Special abilities
Pikachu's special ability is Static, which can cause paralysis in battle if hit by a physical move. In Pokémon Black and White's Dream World, the Trainer receives a Pikachu with the Lightning Rod ability.

Pikachu are the only Pokémon that get value and can make use of the effects of the Light Ball held item in battle.

Pikachu are capable of learning Volt Tackle, a powerful Electric-type physical move exclusive to the Pikachu family of Pokémon.

Partner Pikachu is also capable to learning special moves: Zippy Zap, Floaty Fall, Splishy Splash, and the Partner Power, Pika Papow.

Z-Moves
Pikachu is one of the few Pokémon in Sun and Moon which have a special Z-Move dedicated to them.

The Z-Move Catastropika is Pikachu's signature move. The move is activated by the Z-Crystal, Pikanium Z. Its base is Volt Tackle. Catastropika can be learned only by a Pikachu with Volt Tackle, and becomes unusable if Volt Tackle is forgotten or if the Pikachu evolves into Raichu.

The Z-Move 10,000,000 Volt Thunderbolt is Ash Pikachu's signature move. The move is activated by the Z-Crystal, Pikashunium Z. Its base is Thunderbolt.

Pikachu, being an Electric-type, is capable of using the Z-Crystal, Electrium Z, to use the Z Move Gigavolt Havoc.

Gigantamax
Pikachu is one of the 32 Pokémon in Sword and Shield that can Gigantamax by having a special member from it species or, with the Isle of Armor Expansion Pass, using Max Soup on a Pikachu. Gigantamax Pikachu can also be obtained from having save data of Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! on your console, and talking to a certain NPC in the Wild Area Train Station.

Gigantamax Pikachu is the only known Pokémon capable of using the G-Max move, G-Max Volt Crash.

Evolution
Pikachu evolves into a Raichu by using a Thunder Stone. It evolves from Pichu when its happiness is maxed with the trainer in game. It will evolve into Alolan Raichu if using a Thunder Stone in the Alola region.
